So, we want to build a reducer function.
And how this works is a reducer function
outside of state but just in general,
is that it takes some parameters.
And then it reduces the whatever
you send in it reduces it
into its final state and then returns it.
And so when we use a reducer for
state management,
what we're saying is ,here is the state
and then here's the action that we want.
So interestingly enough,
if we go back to this calculate this
is kind of a similar situation,
here we're saying,
here's the two numbers available.
And then here's the operation.
In this case, we're saying, here's state,
and then here is your action,
which has the type of action
that it is plus the payload.
But what this does is it accepts.
It takes state and the action and
then based on the action type,
it calculates new state and
then returns it.
And so we kind of hinted at this.
In our refactoring example,
this is an air traffic
controller function.
That its primary existence,
the reason why it exists is to delegate.
Now, if you've done NGR x or
if you've done Redux and
you're seeing complex logic
in these nested statements.
That is bad, and I would say
I've seen a lot of criticism for
Redux and NGR x because of that.
And again, that's not because Redux or
NGR X is bad.
It's because hidden state is bad and
it has no,
it's no commentary or
indictment on the design pattern.
When you're essentially invalidating it
with an anti pattern, so in this case,
load, select, create,
update, delete and clear.
And an action in this case is
it always will have a type and
then it may have a payload.
So this is where this question mark
means is that maybe, you'll have this or
maybe you're won't.
And then from here what I just wanna point
out because the cats out of the bag,
we know what we're building.
Is that one thing I do recommend,
is in your case statements,
these are magic strings and
you want to extract this out.
And so
what I will do at a minimum is extract
this out into essentially const.
Higher level variables that I can
reference that I then put in here so
that I don't have these magic
strings floating around.
In my code, cuz that's a really bad way.
Or rather, what happens if I needed
to reference create somewhere else?
Well now I've got code duplication.
And so
again you just extract to a parameter.
And so this is again, just elevating this.
And so when you have strings,
the primitive strings in your code,
it makes it really hard to reuse those.
So this is where you extract these out.
And you turn these into these
kind of constant variables.
Now you'll notice as well.
That load, select, create,
update, delete clear.
The problem with that is
outside of context or
if you're unless you're looking at
this code you don't really know.
What that's actually talking about, but
the only way that I know that
we're talking about creating
clients is because inside of that code,
it says Create client.
And so
I have to actually infer that meaning.
And so the other thing about writing code
is that it should be self documenting.
You should be able to look at your code
and immediately know what it does.
So the difference is that, we're here
we just have load, select, create,
update and delete.
Well, what what are we doing?
What are we talking about?
There's no modifier there.
Now over here case, client create.
Without seeing the code, we have a pretty
good idea what that is client delete.
And so it's really important,
even at the cost of verbosity,
in other words, computers,
we're not dealing with 256 k.
That's a K of RAM, where we actually
have to manage our own memory and
like our lion counts the characters
in like this matters.
Is that right code to be readable?
This is why we have Webpack.
This is why we have Bundlers
like they take care of that
like I've just seen code where it's so
terse and so
concise and so
clever that it is just ineligible.
Like you can't even you have
no idea what's happening,
that if you've ever seen,
like, minimize code,
like I've met people like that's how they
write code and it's completely opaque.
What is actually happening?
And so that's a little side
bonus that didn't cost anything.
But when you write code that is self
documenting, more often than not,
you do not need documentation in
the form of comments in your code.
Comments are really in my opinion, it's
typically relevant when you write it and
then it goes stale almost immediately.
And so
you should avoid excessive comments and
just write code that really
makes that point for you.
I am going to create a reducer and
we'll just step into this and get started.
So, I'm gonna call this const,
clients, reducer and this is a function.
And.
It takes two parameters.
So it's gonna take, state,
which is going to be client state.
Work with me here.
There we go.
And it's going to take an action.
And what I can also do
is I can pre initialize
this parameter to
the initial client state.
Now from here,
what I'll do is I'm going to make
a switch case and
I'm going to go action.type.
Now, you'll notice here
that when I go dot,
nothing happens because we haven't
defined what an action is.
And so what I'll do is I'll
just go interface action, and
it's going to have a type
which is a string.
And it's going to have a payload, which
is optional, and this is gonna be any.
So a payload just can
really be anything and
I'm gonna just copy this and
I'm gonna move it up to the top.
This is kind of a super top level thing.
And now within the reducer,
if I type this and so this is,
again part of this as we start to turn
this over and get our hands dirty.
You'll notice that now,
when I type this parameter
that it's now telling me.
Or giving me some hints
about what I can use and
then from here cuz I already know what I'm
going to do that I'm going to create.
Some actions what I will do here just
because this would take a bit of time and
I don't know if it is exciting for
you as it is for
me to sit and watch me type.
So I'm just gonna copy
this out of solutions.
You can yell at me later, but
this allows us to be a little bit faster.
So all I've done is I've just copied
these constant variables in here,
and we'll go case and we'll go client,
Load, And we're gonna do something.
And what I'll do is I'm gonna
do just a couple of them.
Maybe let's do, client select.
And I'm just going to return load,
clients, state, action.
Now this doesn't exist,
but it will eventually.
Return select, client, state, action.
And what I can actually do
here is I can just send in
the payload because we already
know what the type is, hello
I can actually even get
rid of these braces here.
Make the super nice and tight And
then what we're gonna do is if
something does not match up,
we're just going to return state,
all right.
Now, let's go ahead and
just create placeholders for
these methods, little clients.
It's going to take state.
And clients and
then it's going to do something.
So I'm just going to
log this out of clients
Select client.
This is going to take
a client select client.
There we go.
So this is angry about shadow names.
That's okay.
We can live with that.
There we go.
And so
the big thing here is that we are now
creating a mechanism in
which we can manipulate
state based on a particular condition.